# Transloadit PHP SDK

# Purpose

This is the official PHP SDK for the
[transloadit.com](http://transloadit.com/) API.

You can use it to setup file upload forms for your users, or to upload
existing files from your server.

## Examples

To get started, each of our examples requires that you create a new
Transloadit instance like this

    <?php
    require_once('/path/to/php-sdk/lib/transloadit/Transloadit.php');
    $transloadit = new Transloadit(array(
      'key' => 'your-key'
      'secret' => 'your-secret'
    ));

    // Example code goes here!

**Note:** All of the examples below can be found and run from within the
`example/` folder.

<!-- This section is generated by: make docs -->

### 1. Upload and resize an image from your server

This example demonstrates how you can use the sdk to create an assembly
on your server.

It takes a sample image file, uploads it to transloadit, and starts a
resizing job on it.

    <?php

    $response = $transloadit->createAssembly(array(
      'files' => array(dirname(__FILE__).'/fixture/straw-apple.jpg'),
      'params' => array(
        'steps' => array(
          'resize' => array(
            'robot' => '/image/resize',
            'width' => 200,
            'height' => 100,
          )
        )
      ),
      /*
      If you set `blocking` to true, this request will hang until
      transloadit has finished resizing the image.

      This is ok to do with small files, but it requires that the
      network connection remains uninterrupted for the whole time.

      So for bigger files you should use our `notify_url` parameter,
      which contacts your server when the processing is done.
      */
      'blocking' => false,
    ));

    // Show the results of the assembly we spawned
    echo '<pre>';
    print_r($response);
    echo '</pre>';


### 2. Create a simple end-user upload form

This example shows you how to create a simple transloadit upload form
that redirects back to your site after the upload is done.

Once the script receives the redirect request, the current status for
this assembly is shown using Transloadit::response().

Note: There is no guarantee that the assembly has already finished
executing by the time the `$response` is fetched. You should use
the `notify_url` parameter for this.

    <?php

    // Check if this request is a transloadit redirect_url notification.
    // If so fetch the response and output the current assembly status:
    $response = Transloadit::response();
    if ($response) {
      echo '<h1>Assembly status:</h1>';
      echo '<pre>';
      print_r($response);
      echo '</pre>';
      exit;
    }

    // This should work on most environments, but you might have to modify
    // this for your particular setup.
    $redirectUrl = sprintf(
      'http://%s%s',
      $_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'],
      $_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']
    );

    // Setup a simple file upload form that resizes an image to 200x100px
    echo $transloadit->createAssemblyForm(array(
      'params' => array(
        'steps' => array(
          'resize' => array(
            'robot' => '/image/resize',
            'width' => 200,
            'height' => 100,
          )
        ),
         // See note about this parameter from example 1
        'blocking' => false,
        'redirect_url' => $redirectUrl
      )
    ));
    ?>
    <h1>Pick an image to resize</h1>
    <input name="example_upload" type="file">
    <input type="submit" value="Upload">
    </form>


### 3. Integrate the jQuery plugin into the previous example

Integrating the jQuery plugin simply means adding a few lines of JavaScript
to the previous example. Check the HTML comments below to see what changed.

    <?php

    $response = Transloadit::response();
    if ($response) {
      echo '<h1>Assembly status:</h1>';
      echo '<pre>';
      print_r($response);
      echo '</pre>';
      exit;
    }

    $redirectUrl = sprintf(
      'http://%s%s',
      $_SERVER['HTTP_HOST'],
      $_SERVER['REQUEST_URI']
    );

    echo $transloadit->createAssemblyForm(array(
      'params' => array(
        'steps' => array(
          'resize' => array(
            'robot' => '/image/resize',
            'width' => 200,
            'height' => 100,
          )
        ),
        'blocking' => false,
        'redirect_url' => $redirectUrl
      )
    ));
    ?>
    <!--
    Including the jQuery plugin is as simple as adding jQuery and including the
    JS snippet for the plugin. See http://transloadit.com/docs/jquery-plugin
    -->
    <script type="text/javascript" src="http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs/jquery/1.4.4/jquery.min.js"></script>
    <script type="text/javascript">
    var tlProtocol = (('https:' == document.location.protocol) ? 'https://' : 'http://');
    document.write(unescape("%3Cscript src='" + tlProtocol + "assets.transloadit.com/js/jquery.transloadit2.js' type='text/javascript'%3E%3C/script%3E"));
    </script>
    <script type="text/javascript">
     $(document).ready(function() {
       // Tell the transloadit plugin to bind itself to our form
       $('form').transloadit();
     });
    </script>
    <!-- Nothing changed below here -->
    <h1>Pick an image to resize</h1>
    <input name="example_upload" type="file">
    <input type="submit" value="Upload">
    </form>

<!-- End of generated doc section -->

## API

### $transloadit = new Transloadit($properties = array());

Creates a new Transloadit instance and applies the given $properties.

#### $transloadit->key = null;

The auth key of your transloadit account.

#### $transloadit->secret = null;

The auth secret of your transloadit account.

#### $transloadit->request($options = array(), $execute = true);

Creates a new `TransloaditRequest` using the `$transloadit->key` and
`$transloadit->secret` properties.

If `$execute` is set to `true`, `$transloaditRequest->execute()` will be
called and used as the return value.

Otherwise the new `TransloaditRequest` instance is being returned.

#### $transloadit->createAssemblyForm($options = array());

Creates a new transloadit assembly form including the hidden 'params' and
'signature' fields. A closing form tag is not included.

`$options` is an array of `TransloaditRequest` properties to be used.
For example: `"params"`, `"expires"`, `"protocol"`, etc..

In addition to that, you can also pass an `"attributes"` key, which allows
you to set custom form attributes. For example:

    $transloadit->createAssemblyForm(array(
      'attributes' => array(
        'id' => 'my_great_upload_form',
        'class' => 'transloadit_form',
      ),
    ));

#### $transloadit->createAssembly($options);

Sends a new assembly request to transloadit. This is the preferred way of
uploading files from your server.

`$options` is an array of `TransloaditRequest` properties to be used.

Check example #1 above for more information.

#### Transloadit::response()

This static method is used to parse the notifications Transloadit sends to
your server.

There are two kinds of notifications this method handles:

* When using the `"redirect_url"` parameter, and transloadit redirects
  back to your site, a `$_GET['assembly_url']` query parameter gets added.
  This method detects the presence of this parameter and fetches the current
  assembly status from that url and returns it as a `TransloaditResponse`.
* When using the `"notify_url"` parameter, transloadit sends a
  `$_POST['transloadit']` parameter. This method detects this, and parses
  the notification JSON into a `TransloaditResponse` object for you.

If the current request does not seem to be invoked by Transloadit, this
method returns `false`.


### $transloaditRequest = new TransloaditRequest($properties = array());

Creates a new TransloaditRequest instance and applies the given $properties.

#### $transloaditRequest->key = null;

The auth key of your transloadit account.

#### $transloaditRequest->secret = null;

The auth secret of your transloadit account.

#### $transloaditRequest->protocol = 'http';

The protocol to use when making this request. Valid values are `'http'` and
`'https'`.

#### $transloaditRequest->method = 'GET';

Inherited from `CurlRequest`. Can be used to set the type of request to be
made.

#### $transloaditRequest->host = 'api2.transloadit.com';

The host to send this request to.

#### $transloaditRequest->path = null;

The url path to request.

#### $transloaditRequest->url = null;

Inherited from `CurlRequest`. Lets you overwrite the above host / path
properties with a fully custom url alltogether.

#### $transloaditRequest->fields = array();

A list of additional fields to send along with your request. Transloadit
will include those in all assembly related notifications.

#### $transloaditRequest->files = array();

An array of paths to local files you would like to upload. For example:

    $transloaditRequest->files = array('/my/file.jpg');

or

    $transloaditRequest->files = array('my_upload' => '/my/file.jpg');

The first example would automatically give your file a field name of
`'file_1'` when executing the request.

#### $transloaditRequest->params = array();

An array representing the JSON params to be send to transloadit. You
do not have to include an `'auth'` key here, as this class handles that
for you as part of `$transloaditRequest->prepare()`.

#### $transloaditRequest->expires = '+2 hours';

If you have configured a '`$transloaditRequest->secret`', this class will
automatically sign your request. The expires property lets you configure
the duration for which the signature is valid.

#### $transloaditRequest->headers = array();

Lets you send additional headers along with your request. You should not
have to change this property.

#### $transloaditRequest->execute()

Sends this request to Transloadit and returns a `TransloaditResponse`
instance.

### $transloaditResponse = new TransloaditResponse($properties = array());

Creates a new TransloaditResponse instance and applies the given $properties.

#### $transloaditResponse->data = null;

Inherited from `CurlResponse`. Contains an array of the parsed JSON
response from transloadit.

You should generally only access this property after having checked for
errors using `$transloaditResponse->error()`.

#### $transloaditResponse->error();

Returns `false` or a string containing an explanation of what went wrong.

All of the following will cause an error string to be returned:

* Network issues of any kind
* The transloadit response JSON contains an `{"error": "..."}` key
* A malformed response was received
